Welcome back in this lecture we're going to be talking about hover over data as you already know when
you interact the plot the graph and your cursor is hovering over a particular part of the graph.
You get to see a piece of information displayed back.
This information can actually be served internally in your script using Jaison and then parsed for specific
information.
So you can imagine if you have a scatterplot and you were hovering over with your cursor you'd be able
to figure out where the user's cursor actually is on a particular scatter point where it's x axis point
is and what it's Y-axis point is and any other information about that actual point on the plot.
So every graph probably has a hover data component property but then can be accessed and used either
internally or served externally as extra information for the user.
Let's go ahead and show you what we're going to be building in this lecture to display the ability of
hover data.
All right so here we are at that dashboard are going to be creating in this lecture we have an x axis
and y axis.
And technically it's a scatterplot where we've have a grid of three by three.
So this again correlates that red blue and yellow and the one two and three.
And as you hover over each of these points.
Notice that we're actually then serving some Jaison data about that particular point.
So I'm going to go here in the middle of my cursor so that's blue too.
And you'll notice I can see x values blue and y values too.
And then there's some other information about the plot that may or may not be useful.
But this is actually information you can grab internally as a user goes and hovers over various points.
So we're going to show you right now how do you actually grab this component of data.
And we'll also show you how to surf back that information.
Once you've done that we're going to expand on this by actually grabbing the stated internally grabbing
the data on what color they've chosen.
In this case yellow as well as the number of wheels they've chosen and then we're going to serve an
image back.
So let me show you what that is going to look like.
Ok so I just refresh this to the next script.
We'll be working on during the lecture right now.
Has a broken image tag.
And that's because I haven't hovered over one of these points yet but as you hover over we're going
to actually return the image that is correlated to whatever the point we're hovering over.
So for example read one that's the red motorcycle and then we can do all three.
That's this yellow three wheeled vehicle and so on.
So we're going to grab that information internally and then return back the appropriate image.
Let's go to our text editor and start creating that first dashboard and then we'll expand it to this
image example.
OK.
Here we are back at the text editor.
I've gone ahead and done the main imports dash core and each team all components dependencies for input
and output.
Since we have a plot there for that scatterplot grid we have graph objects as go we'll be reading in
some data later on site pand this is PD and then have also have import Jaison and that Jason is going
to be used to actually work with that hover data component.
Let's start off by creating our application saying app is equal to Ashlock dash and then I'm going to
read in that wheel's CSP dataset that we worked with earlier.
So I'll say data wheels not CFE.
Again remember you may need to do that thought thought Flash data depending on where you're actually
located on your computer.
And then what I'm going to do is say app or lay out is equal to and this is where we're going to have
our division and it's a list of divisions.
So let me now get us a little bit of room here to work with.
So we have this HTL div and inside of the Stiv.
I'm actually going to create two more divs one div is essentially going to be holding the graph and
the other div will be a pre-formatted div to hold.
Our Jason
so I will make one more div here in the list and then in other.
All right.
So let's start off with the one on the bottom since that was a little simpler.
This did what it's going to do.
It's going to hold another ASTM Well component called h t m l.
And it's a pretty formatting and we're going to give this an idea of it.
Technically you can give it whatever you want.
I was going to say I covered that data and let's give it a little bit of styling we'll say style dictionary.
Physical too.
And we're going to give it a little bit of padding on the top just so there's no overlapping issues.
And as always dialing is something you can play around with.
And that's the styling for this pre formatting HTML component.
I'm going to put a comma here and then give styling to this HTL divisions and notice how my comma is
placed.
So the style dictionary is now for that actual div.
And this is going to be a width of 30 percent and that basically just makes sure that that Jason we
display back doesn't take up the entire string as one long text and said we're going to squeeze it to
30 percent of our browser.
So that's our bottom div or excuse me the really the div to the right and now we need to do the scatterplot
div.
So let's do that.
Going to zoom in here.
And for this div we're going to get a core component for a graph and it's going to be a lot of stuff
going on here.
We first want to give this an idea let's give this the idea of wheels Dasch plot.
And this is going to be that scatterplot we're going to set it up so it looks more like a grid.
And then when a person hovers over a particular point in that scatterplot it's going to return back
some information.
So we have our feet as wheels plot will say comma here and now the next thing to go inside.
Let me get one more space is the figure parameter.
I remember the figure parameter.
That's just the dictionary that takes in your data list as well as your layout.
So we have our data in our layout.
Now it's just time to fill that out.
So our data that's going to have to go that scatterplot
and go that scatter needs an x value.
So to provide that we'll see X here is equal to the color column from our data frame Khama the y value
will be equal to the F wheels.
So on the x axis we show the color on the wax as we show the wheels.
And then in order to make it look like a grid where we can do is edit the spacing on the y axis.
And if I say D-y is equal to one that's going to give it that grid like structure.
Finally let's make sure it's a scatterplot than that we don't connect any of these points by saying
load is equal to markers and you can edit the markers more if you want by saying marker equals and then
providing a dictionary such as size the color or some line around each marker for a case.
I'm just going to make the markers a little bigger so that we can view them in our screen and or dashboard
so we'll say a marker as equal to the size component of the marker is 15.
All right.
Something I want you to be aware of here that later on we're going to use is I'm not actually providing
a property component inside my graph or my figure for the hover data and you're going to see why later
on.
But I want to make that clear right now that nowhere inside of this graph object.
Am I going to write hover data as an actual property finally for our layout.
Inside here will say Go Dalt lay out and here is where you can set a title and X-axis or Y-axis title
or title.
Very simple as.
Maybe test.
So our test dashboard and the other thing I want to set is hover mode equal to closest that way when
your cursor is closest to it it's got a point.
That's the information we're grabbing.
So again hover mode is equal to closest and you can mess around with an x axis title or a Y axis title.
Save that and then let's give ourselves a little more room that we set up the layout again.
All we're doing in this layout we set up a div for actual scatterplot and we set up this HTL div that's
going to return the Jaison.
So it technically has a children property that we're not using right now but we're going to fill that
in with our input now put through the use of callbacks.
That means we're come down here.
We're starting our function we'll say callback image.
And at first we're just going to not call back an image we're just going to report back that Jason information.
So we're going to take in some hover data as a variable and we're going to return Jason dumps.
And if you've worked on library before Python you know it's kind of a common function to use off the
adjacent library.
But basically it can take JCA like information and report it back.
So it's essentially going to help us parse through this later on we'll say Jason that dumps the Hubbard
data and I'm going to indent equal to two that way.
It appears nicely on our actual dashboard.
So because we're actually providing a parameter into this function that means we need some sort of input
output here to connect with our app that callback will see app thoughts callback and the output we're
going to do is we're going to send that information.
Chase on that dumps to this pre-formatted.
So we're going to send it to the idea of hover data
and the property we're going to overwrite is children.
And technically this didn't need to be prie.
You can also mess around of other HTL things like to be frank another div or even H-1 depending on what
stylings of each female you want that information to be displayed.
But this performing it works pretty nice as far as displaying the simple text.
So we'll use that and then finally we have our list where IMPA is going to go in for the input.
We're going to grab from this graph object so that Id We gave it an idea of wheel stop stash plot so
I'll pass that in here and then we need to decide well what's the actual property we're grabbing from
for the input.
Remember these are technically all properties X Y the Y the figure all that information we could technically
grab.
But what we're going to pass on here is hover then capital D data.
Again notice I never actually defined hover data as a property here.
That's just part of this graph object that I can call it without needing to define.
So we have hover data and not to be confused that the ID we chose here for that second component.
This hover data is a property that belongs to essentially any core component graph.
So it's just the information that plotless is going to grab as you hover over a particular aspect of
your plot.
So whether it's a histogram or scatterplot plotless is going to return certain information for you as
you hover over that particular part of your graph and that information has this property ID of hover
data as a singular word with a capital D.
So that's where this particular string is coming from.
This is a string.
You can't edit or change.
How are these ideas or even this parameter those you can change around and make it a different string
or different variable name the one you cannot change is the ID number data for the graph or the figure
All right so that's really all we need to do and that should be working so let's make sure it ran correctly
we'll say if name is equal to Main take her app and run that server let's save this.
Make sure I don't make any typo.
That was a lot of typing.
Remember you can always copy and paste from are provided files or run provided files directly.
When I run this let's expand this make sure to have a typo.
Looks like it's running so let's head over to our dashboard.
All right so here we are at the dashboard.
Now if you're following along you should have gotten something that looks more or less like this.
Notice here I have no.
And as I hover over one of these points I get back that Jason what I need to do is actually align this
correctly.
Is add one more style parameter to my actual figure my figure right now.
It's taken the entire width of my dashboard so I want to change that way to be 30 percent and then I'm
also going to add a float left that way it only takes up 30 percent on the left hand side.
And that should give some space for this to be over here on the right.
So let's go back and fix that.
OK so back here inside of the div. of that's holding the graph I'm going to if you look at this Stiv
comeback one let's zoom in a little bit.
So we have this live.
Here's the princess for the live.
I'm going to add my style dictionary here and then say the following.
I'll set the with to be 3 percent.
And then to line it up to the left.
I can say float left.
Let's save that and then rerun our dashboard and see if that fix that issue.
All right there we go.
And now I can see my test red blue and yellow as well as a number of wheels.
Setting up my little grid.
Notice how it's by default LOL returning nothing back which makes sense because I haven't hovered over
anything yet.
Only once I hover over do I get to see the changes to whatever the point is.
So I get to see red to blue one etc..
OK now let's go ahead and copy and paste some code for the notes to turn this Jason into the ability
to actually read the correlated JPEG image from our image file.
So essentially I just want to grab this information blue and three if I zoom in just a little bit are
actually quite a bit.
Notice here I have a dictionary with the key points.
Then if a list of another dictionary inside of it with X and Y.
So I'm going to need to be able to grab quite deeply into this nested dictionary and list combination.
The actual information I want so I will be doing here is I will say points grab me the first item inside
the points list which is this dictionary and the from that either grab X or Y so we'll see that happening
inside the callback image when we edit that function and then we'll use that information.
This blue and that number to actually grab the correct JPEG file.
Very similar to what we did before and also similar to what we did before.
We're going to be using that in code image function in this case since we already written it out once
before will copy and paste it from the provided notes.
So let's head back to that text editor and have this be turned into an image.
All right.
Back here at the text editor what I'm going to do now is import at the very top.
Base 64 and we're going to need that for our encode image function.
I'm going to copy and paste the code image from a function from the provided notes.
Since we've actually already walk through this function in an earlier lecture.
Basically it's just going to encode the image file so we can return it to an HMO image division.
So instead of having this pre-formatted inside of this team I'll decide what I'm going to do now is
inside of this div instead of having it pre formatting will say h t m l image and then we can give this
an ID of.
It can either be covered data or hover image as long as it sinks up with this output so it's up to you
whatever you want to call it.
There's the ID we need to give it a source will have default source be the string children.
So at first it's not going to show anything.
But then later on we're going to have particular output to give the right source.
So then lastly let's give it a fixed height so say height of the image is equal to 300 and we can keep
editing this style if we want.
In this case I think the only thing here to make it look nice though we actually need is a little bit
of padding on the top just like we did in the other style dictionary so we'll say padding on the top
is 35 OK essentially replacing that pre H.T. melted with an image tag.
Because we're going to be connecting the ID Hubbard data and now instead of overwriting children because
that's text we instead want the source component source say source because we're going to send back
a source for that image and we're going to do that within the callback image.
So the callback image it takes in essentially that hover data remember if we don't work with that with
Jason it's going to essentially look like a dictionary inside of a list inside of a dictionary.
Because of that we want to grab the wheel number and the color value.
So I'll set these up as variables and then we'll grab them.
So grab that hover data grab that point's dictionary which contains a list to the first item in that
list which is the dictionary itself and then we want the white key there and we'll do the same thing.
For the color and now that we have wheel and color what it can do is set up my path and for my case
I'm in the same directory as my data folder salsa images here forward slash.
You may need to have to add that thought thought for it slash depending on where you're located.
And once we have our path we're going to return in code image and we're going to pass in again using
this we'll start see file.
Remember that last column is actually the name of the JPEG file.
So I'm going to copy and paste this command from our notes.
We've seen it before and we're essentially just going to concatenate the path string with whatever the
string and the column that relates the wheel and color to do that want to copy and paste this kind of
really long Pandurs code.
But essentially what this does is it says where the wheel matches up to my wheel value and where the
color is equal to the color value.
Where I was hovering over.
Go ahead and grab that image column and then return that first value values index at 0 and then concatenate
that with data images and then you'll have the file path for the image which you can then encode and
then send back as the source for this Hover data.
OK.
So kind of a lot of steps there but hopefully if you break it down it makes sense to you.
Let's save this and actually check if it works.
Going to control see my old script and run this again.
Looks like I have invalid syntax somewhere else and make sure I don't have an error.
All right.
So looks like I had a little typo here which style it's probably because I forgot some braces or brackets
and looking at my div.
It looks to me like I forgot to put this inside of a list itself.
So let's do that for this div.
In fact let's just cut this out right now so we don't mess this up.
So there is my div there is my style.
I once put that image inside of that again.
And for this style We can either apply it to the outermost div or just the indiv here.
Let's cut that out.
Apply this innermost div and then we can make sure I don't accidentally have any extra parentheses here.
So let's zoom out.
I believe I do have an extra one.
So let me save this.
Run it again.
Yep that's what I thought.
I have an extra one here let's delete that.
Save it and then we should be good to go.
OK so it's running.
That was just a little bit of braces or prints these issues.
It's really easy to mess that up with plotless so always keep in mind try to break down what the actual
problem is.
But let's head over to our dashboard and see if we're reporting back to that image.
OK.
Here we are back in the dashboard now as I hover over this.
I get to see the actual image file that correlates with whatever the scatter point.
I'm hovering over.
So I can see blue to blue three blue one red one and so on.
All right I hope that was helpful to you.
Always remember you have all the code that we showed here available to you in the cabrito as well as
the guidebook with more explanation.
Thanks everyone and we'll see you at the next lecture where we begin to discuss Klik data.
We'll see you there.